h1. Express OpenMRS-dev-setup

Quickstart development setup for OpenMRS via virtualization so that the host computer doesn't get mucked up. Express setup version uses a working snapshot of the source code as of 2014-04-19.

h2. Requires:

VirtualBox, https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads
Vagrant, http://downloads.vagrantup.com/

Note: OSX users will want to use the dmg's for VirtualBox and Vagrant and the pip installation method for ansible
Note: Windows users will not need to download ansible.

h2. Interacting with the application: Happy Path Usage Instructions

[install dependencies]
git clone -b express-setup https://github.com/cpschuster/OpenMRS-dev-setup
cd OpenMRS-dev-setup
[If Windows user] git checkout windows
mkdir projects
vagrant up (should only take a few minutes)
vagrant ssh
[in guest terminal] cd Projects/OpenMRS/webapp/
[in guest terminal] sudo mvn jetty:run
[in host browser] http://localhost:8080/openmrs/
[in host browser] OpenMRS web application installation should already be complete. Log in with admin/test

h2. Starting development: Happy Path Usage Instructions

cd OpenMRS-dev-setup
[If Windows user] git checkout windows
vagrant ssh
[in guest terminal] cd Projects/OpenMRS/
[in guest terminal] git pull origin master 
[in guest terminal] mvn clean install 
[in guest terminal] mvn jetty:run
[in host browser] http://localhost:8080/openmrs/
[in host machine] Create Eclipse workspace over OpenMRS-dev-setup/projects. Take note that Java versions etc. will need to match what's on the VM.
Note: mysql root password is set to root_password
